The Joe Rogan experience. What kind of steroids were dudes doing back then?
Uh, I mean, basic, you know, you got, you know,
your tests, uh, D ball, uh,
it's just basic stuff, you know? And back then, you know,
because the da come in, uh, and you know,
what was trying to find out what we all doing. They, they,
they may able to do it legally. So I'll, you know,
you have to go to the doctor and get all these prescriptions and you would get
prescriptions.
For steroids. Yeah.
What kind of steroids would they give you a prescription for? Yeah.
Any kind of test you need it. They would get growth hormone.
They give prescription codes. Once the da came in, they was like,
what are y'all doing? What are y'all taking?
Like the DEA shouldn't you be out there catching people, selling meth.
Why are you going after bodybuilders? Who were also cops? Cause they had kids.
Out there where they were taking it and committing suicide.
Oh see, I didn't know what that was when I was a kid.
They were committing suicide because they were getting depressed from the
steroids or coming off of it, coming off of.
It. Yeah. So they trying to figure out, you know,
what are y'all doing on what w
we, we, we, we gotta get y'all off this stuff.
And so that's when you got a doctor that was willing to prescribe everything.
So this was this while you're doing Mr. Olympia. Yeah.
So all that stuff was above board was all legal.
Yeah. Yeah. Everything was legal back then.
And what is, is that the case now?
I, I, you know what, that was just when the heat was on, you know, I don't know.
I don't, I don't think they got the heat on the, hit on the guys down like that.
Now.
DEA will come to you and you just say, Hey, here's my prescriptions. Yeah.
And there we go. All right. Yeah.
One time you didn't, if you didn't have prescription, they took your stuff.
Really? Yeah.
So they find whatever you had take it from you. Yeah.
Hmm, yup. How did they know where it was? You told them. Oh, okay.
Because otherwise they put you in jail. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't search your house,
you know, get a search warrant, but I got this and this and that.
You would have to take something to be as big as you were when you were at your
peak. It's not really possible to be big.
Now without it. No, no,
you can't get that B [inaudible] nothing got to have to it's
genetics. Yes.
Look at the baseball players that have taken stuff and look at us.
Yeah. You know, they didn't, they can't get that big. They not gifted for it.
Well, they wouldn't.
Try either. Right. They weren't trying to get that big it guys like can say go,
he got pretty big.
They couldn't get that big because they, it to really.
So it's a small percentage of the population that would get that bit. Yeah,
exactly.
Yeah. And probably like 1% that could get as big as I got.
And I was the only guy, nobody, uh, duplicated that sense.
And you be in that condition and be healthy right now.
I don't have any health problem. Besides the, you know, the back, the injuries,
the injuries. Yeah. My, my living, my kidneys and my heart. It's all good.
Did.
You, while you were doing things, did you get, uh, frequent blood tests?
Every.
Every three to four months.
And the doctor would go over it and make sure everything was fine.
Everything was always, everything's always good.
That seems to be the big misconception about steroids is that people think
steroids.
Thank you. Taking like tons of stuff.
I wouldn't taking tons of stuff.
I probably wouldn't take no more than what those baseball players were taking.
Um.
Just working out more and working out.
Lifting more and gifted genetically for it. Right.
Dorian.
Yates said basically the same thing. Yeah. It wasn't,
it wasn't that he was taking a lot compared to a lot of, yeah, exactly. Yeah.
People think I was taking massive amounts of stuff that if I'd been taking
massive mounts and stuff, I wouldn't think I'd still be here.
I don't think I'd be as healthy as I am now. Right. Wow. You know,
besides my back surgery, neck surgery, I'm all good. And like I said,
my liver, my kidneys and heart and everything still hold up real good.
When you would, uh, get off for that three month period,
would you cycle off of everything?
Cold Turkey, cold Turkey. Yeah. Really cold Turkey.
I didn't take anything or nothing.
And what did you feel like over those three? Normal.
Really? No. Didn't bother me a bit. So you just.
You got this great genetics man.
Craziest ever. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, obviously there's no way you could take all.
You know, Turkey. I stopped everything one day. Uh, I be taking, you know,
a bunch of stuff next day. Nothing. And your body would just feel normal.
Body felt normal. It didn't bother me a bit. That's so crazy.
I didn't get depressed or nothing, you know? Yeah. It felt normal.
That's just another, yeah. I still was strong. Wow. I can still, you know,
squat, you know, I could squat, you know, seven, 800 naturally.
Wow. So you.
Basically kept a lot of your games. Yup.
Yup. My was still 300. I'm still 300 pounds, you know,
without taking all that stuff.
And so then after three months,
then you would slowly ramp by slowly ran back up. Yeah.
And all this under doctor supervision.
All is under doctor supervision and all, all,
all the while I'm getting my blood work done every three to four months.
So a lot of guys after they're done competing,
then they have to get on testosterone replacement therapy because the endocrine
systems kind of messed up. Did you have to do as well? Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. It seems like that's just a part of the sport.
Right? Yeah. Yeah. It is. Yeah.
It's interesting though,
because like for the longest time these guys were doing these ads and magazines
and they were attributing everything to some supplement that they were selling
or some creatine or some this or all that stuff. It does.
It helps you out a little bit, but it's not going to get you. It's not.
Going to get you to 330 pounds with 3% body fat.
No, it's definitely not going to do that.
You were allowed to talk about why you were competing.
Uh, yeah. I mean, come up. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I talked about it. I didn't, uh, have no reason to hide it.
People.
No. When you got that. Yeah.
But it seemed like there was an era where bodybuilding kind of tried to pretend
that they weren't taking them.
Because all those people committing suicide and kids
taking all that stuff and doing it the wrong way, you know,
not having it prescribed and all this kind of stuff.
Also the more is black market, the bad.
Stuff, you know? Right. Yeah.
But there were some guys that would just say, well,
the way to win is to take away more than everybody else and see what your body
can tolerate.
Yeah. The more you take the better you're going to be.
I knew a guy like that and he wound up having a heart attack.
We used to call them garden hoses.
Cause his arms looked like garden hoses for veins.
He had just these giant veins all over his arms deem makes sense.
But he was just on everything.
Yeah. Yeah. But he didn't make it to 30. Yeah.
He died before he was 30. Some people. Yeah. They do it the wrong way.
I didn't start taking anything till I was 30. Yeah.
Remember I was,
I was a drug-free for a long time and I did everything naturally for a
long, long time because I was next to gifted. Right.
Yeah. What inspired you?
What made you decide when you were 30 that you had to do something?
I got tired of getting my kicked.
In competitions. Yeah. The highest I would place for like third or something,
you know, after a while, you know, you competitive and,
you see the other, guy's got a competitive advantage on you.
So let's make this thing equal.
Does this something somebody suggested to you? Yeah. Yeah.
So people in the gym like, Hey Ronnie.
No one of the competitors suggested that to me,
a guy by the name of flex Wheeler, best friend in the world,
that guy was huge. Huge. He taught me everything. I know.
Did he really? Yeah. He, uh,
also got me the best nutritionist ever.
That's how I won first Olympia.
So is that how most guys find out about steroids from other guys who are
competing?
If you were smart,
that's the way you would do somebody that's somebody that I know. Yeah,
yeah. What they're doing and somebody that's successful at it. My
dumb trainer that think they know. Right. You know,
you know, flex has worn, you know, major contests.
And what was the real experience bodybuilder at the time? You know,
I'm, I'm new, still new to the sport. I didn't get into it until I was 24.
I think he started probably when he was like 16, 17, somewhere in there.
I never did that kind of stuff. Cause we didn't have it where I was from.
How much of a night and day difference was it once you started taking stuff?
Uh, as far as the, uh, condition the night and day.
Night and day in your ability to work, to put in work? No. No.
The only thing changed was conditioning. What do you mean by strength?
Didn't go up there much.